Overview
--------
     The IDSZ system is a way of describing
objects using 4 letter words.  For example,
a crossbow has an IDSZ of [XBOW], and a sword
has an IDSZ of [SWOR].
     Why?  It lets you add generic flags to
the game, so other people can build on them.
For example, I might want to make a sword
that gets a bonus against Dragons.  Since
Dragons have a [DRAG] IDSZ, the sword's
scripted AI can check if it hit a dragon,
and do a little extra damage if it did.
     The nice part is that the weapon will
also work against other [DRAG] creatures,
like Dragonmen and Drag Queens, that I'm
sure people will add in the future.
     The only way it will work though, is
if everyone uses the same ID strings.  So,
before you make a [MINO] [TAUR], consult the
lists below.


Basic Types
-----------
  [NONE] - Not applicable
  [XARM] - Too big to wear equipment
  [XFIR] - Shouldn't use flaming items
  [XICE] - Shouldn't use icy items
  [XNOS] - Doesn't have a nose ( can't breathe toxic gas )
  [XWEP] - Is a weapon ( for purposes of enchant weapon spells )
  [XFUN] - Is a fun mount ( has special attack...  Press the button )
  [XENC] - Shouldn't be enchanted ( bosses can't be bound... )
  [XLEG] - Shouldn't get caught in bear traps


Creature Parent/Child Types
---------------------------
  [HUMA] - Humanoid
    [ADVE] - Adventurer
    [WIZA] - Wizard
    [HEAL] - Healer
    [ROGU] - Rogue
    [SOLD] - Soldier
    [PALA] - Paladin
    [ELFF] - Elf
    [GNOM] - G'nome
    [GUAR] - Guard
    [KNIG] - Knight
    [KING] - King
    [WARL] - Warlock
    [NECR] - Necromancer
    [HORS] - Centaur/Centress
    [LUMP] - Lumpkin
    [FROG] - Trog
    [LIZA] - Lizardman
    [DRAG] - Dragonman
    [BULL] - Minotaur
    [WOLF] - Werewolf
    [BEAR] - Werebear/COBOL
    [BOAR] - Wereboar/Ork
  [GIAN] - Giant Humanoid
    [OGRE] - Ogre/Large human
    [FIRE] - Fire Giant
    [FROS] - Frost Giant
    [STOR] - Storm Giant
    [TROL] - Troll
  [INSE] - Insect
    [GRUB] - Grub Bug
    [WASP] - Wasp
    [SPID] - Spider
    [SCOR] - Scorpion
    [MOSQ] - Mosquito
    [CRAB] - Crab
  [UNDE] - Undead
    [HUMA] - Zombi/Ghoul
    [SKEL] - Skeleton
    [MUMM] - Mummy
    [GHOS] - Ghost ( Fright, Haunt )
    [VAMP] - Vampire
    [LICH] - Lich
    [DRAG] - Dragon Lich
    [MAGI] - Ghost Knight
  [FAER] - Sprite/Faerie
    [FLAM] - Flame Sprite
  [MAGI] - Magical ( can be disenchanted )
    [STAL] - Stalker
    [BALL] - Ball of Light
    [SHAD] - Shadow/Shade
    [VORT] - Vortex
    [MIMI] - Mimic
    [LOCK] - Chest Mimic
    [EART] - Earth Elemental
    [FIRE] - Fire Elemental
    [WATE] - Water Elemental
    [WIND] - Wind Elemental
  [ANIM] - Animate ( like magical, but no enchant sustaining )
    [TILE] - Tile mimic ( custom death script )
    [BLOB] - Acid blob ( custom death script )
    [CUBE] - Gelfeet ( shouldn't die )
    [WIER] - Water wierd ( shouldn't die an easy death )
  [FISH] - Fish and other water creatures
    [SQUI] - Squid
    [OCTO] - Octopus
  [RODE] - Rodent
    [MOUS] - Mouse
    [RATT] - Rat
    [SQUI] - Squirrel
  [BUNN] - Bunny
  [LIZA] - Lizard
    [BASI] - Basilisk
    [DRAG] - Dragon
  [BIRD] - Bird
    [COCK] - Cockatrice
    [CHIC] - Chicken
  [DEMO] - Demon
    [GARG] - Gargoyle
    [WATC] - Watcher
  [FROG] - Frog
  [BOAR] - Boar/Hog/Pig
  [GOAT] - Goat/Lamb/Sheep
  [TURT] - Turtle
  [HORS] - Horse
  [BULL] - Bull/Cow
  [WOLF] - Dog/Wolf
    [BULL] - Bull Wolf
    [HOTT] - Hot Dog
  [LION] - Cat/Lion/BigCat
  [MECH] - Mechanical



Equipment Parent/Child Types
----------------------------
  [FOOT] - Footwear
    [SHOE] - Shoes
    [BOOT] - Boots
  [HAND] - Handwear
    [BAND] - Band
    [BRAC] - Bracelet
    [RING] - Ring
    [GLOV] - Gloves
    [GAUN] - Gauntlets
  [NECK] - Neckwear
    [AMUL] - Amulet
    [PEND] - Pendant
    [LACE] - Necklace



Item Parent/Child Types
-----------------------
  [POTI] - Potion
    [LIFE] - Life potion
    [MANA] - Mana potion
    [SPEE] - Speed potion
    [POIS] - Poison
  [GONN] - Gonne
    [SHOT] - Shotgonne
    [GATL] - Gatlin Gonne
  [XBOW] - Crossbow
    [WOOD] - Crossbow
    [SILV] - Silver Crossbow
  [LBOW] - Longbow
    [WOOD] - Long Bow
    [SILV] - Silver Longbow
    [ARTI] - Artifact
  [MACE] - Mace
    [BLUN] - Blunt
    [SPIK] - Spiked
    [ARTI] - Artifact
  [CLAW] - Claw
    [IRON] - Iron Claw
    [BRAS] - Brass Claw
    [SILV] - Silver Claw
    [ARTI] - Artifact
  [STAF] - Staff
    [ARTI] - Artifact
  [POLE] - Polearm
    [SPEA] - Spear
    [HALB] - Halberd
    [ARTI] - Artifact
  [SWOR] - Sword
    [LONG] - Longsword
    [SHOR] - Shortsword
    [ARTI] - Artifact
  [SHIE] - Shield
    [LARG] - Large shield
    [TOWE] - Tower shield
    [ARTI] - Artifact
  [DAGG] - Dagger
    [BODK] - Bodkin
    [PONI] - Poniard
    [STIL] - Stiletto
    [CINQ] - Cinquedea
    [ARTI] - Artifact
  [AXEE] - Axe
    [PICK] - Pick-Axe
    [CLEA] - Cleaver
    [HATC] - Hatchet
    [BATT] - Battle Axe
    [ARTI] - Artifact
  [HAMM] - Hammer
    [MALL] - Mallet
    [WARH] - Warhammer
    [ARTI] - Artifact
  [KEYA] - Key ( KEYA through KEYZ are used )
  [BOOK] - Book



Misc Parent/Child Types
-----------------------
  [CHES] - Chest
    [LOCK] - Unlockable chest
  [DOOR] - Door
    [LOCK] - Unlockable door
  [BUTT] - Button
    [LOCK] - Unlockable button
  [PLAN] - Plant
    [TREE] - Tree
  [ROCK] - Rock/Boulder
    [GRAV] - Grave
    [HEAD] - Stone Idol
  [BRAZ] - Brazier
  [URNN] - Urn


Material Types
--------------
  [CLAY] - Clay
  [ROCK] - Rock
  [WOOD] - Wooden
  [HOLY] - Holy ( vs. Undead, vs. Demon )
  [IRON] - Iron ( can be destroyed )
  [RUST] - Rusted ( cannot be destroyed )
  [SILV] - Silver ( vs. Lycanthropes )
  [GOLD] - Gold



Vulnerability Types
-------------------
  [SILV] - Silver ( for Lycanthropes )
  [HOLY] - Holy ( for Undead )
  [RUST] - Rust ( may be destroyed by corrosion )



Skill Types
-----------
  [WMAG] - Wizard magic
  [DISA] - Disarm traps
  [TECH] - Technology
  [JOUS] - Jousting



Special Types
-------------
  [EVIL] - Evil alignment ( [UNDO] orders... )
  [GOOD] - Good alignment
  [HRUN] - Scared of holy items
  [ERUN] - Scared of evil items
  [FRUN] - Scared of fire items
  [IRUN] - Scared of ice items
  [ZRUN] - Scared of zap items
  [WAKE] - Might be sleeping ( [WAKE] orders )


Order Types ( issued by another character )
-------------------------------------------
  [UNDO] - Undo enchants on ( w/special [EVIL] )
  [WAKE] - Wake sleepers ( w/ special [WAKE] )
  491    - Unlock order ( w/ parent/type [LOCK] )


