Records of which significant portions were written by whom (and when):


Andrew Reading wrote DFArc up to version 1.5. It's a
archiver/extractor for the .dmod file format, which is in fact a D-Mod
directory compressed using the tar+bz2 method. The GUI is written
using the FLTK toolkit.

Version v1.5	December 11th, 2004
(Andrew's copyright notice mistakenly mentions 2005)



Dan Walma wrote DFArc2, a new Dink Smallwood front-end , which avoids
using the command line. It includes parts of DFArc for D-Mod
installation and packaging support. He switched from FLTK to
wxWidgets. The rest of the code has little to do with the original
DFArc.

DFArc2 is included in the Dink Smallwood v1.08 packages, which include
early beta in 2005 and the final version in 2006.



Sylvain Beucler reworked on the code to make it portable (in
particular, run under GNU/Linux), cleaned-up the code for Unicode and
GCC compliance, converted manually coded GUI code to wxGlade (a
graphical GUI designer), and translated to French.

There was some work on DFArc1.5 in 2007 (comments and documentation),
and real work on DFArc2 (now DFArc v3) started in January 2008.


src/BZip.cpp contains a modified version of bzip2-1.0.4/bzlib.c for
better progress status integration with low-level bzip2 code. Original
code is Copyright (C) 1996-2006 Julian Seward <jseward@bzip.org>.


Дамјан Димитриоски translated to Macedonian, Copyright (C) 2008 Free
Software Foundation.

Davide Prina translated to Italian, Copyright (C) 2008.

Vincenzo Campanella contributed to the Italian translation, Copyright
(C) 2010.

GOKUSSJ6 translated to Polish, Copyright (C) 2008.

Michał Trzebiatowski contributed to the Polish translation, Copyright
(C) 2009, 2010.

Roland Illig translated to German, Copyright (C) 2009, 2010.

Peteri Tolonen translated to Finnish, Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010
Free Software Foundation.

Fernando Carmona Varo translated to Spanish, Copyright (C) 2009, 2010.

Joe Hansen translated to Danish, Copyright (C) 2009, 2010.

Clytie Siddall and Trần Ngọc Quân translated to Vietnamese, Copyright
(C) 2009, 2010 Free Software Foundation.

Koen Torfs translated to Dutch, Copyright (C) 2009, 2010 Free Software
Foundation.

Tomislav Krznar translated to Croatian, Copyright (C) 2012.

Мирослав Николић translated to Serbian, Copyright (C) 2012.

Àngel Mompó translated to Catalan, Copyright (C) 2012, 2014, 2015.

Ayşe Nur Akhan translated to Turkish, Copyright (C) 2012.

Felipe Castro translated the engine strings in Esperanto, Copyright
(C) 2011.

Enrico Nicoletto translated to Brazilian Portuguese, Copyright (C)
2013.

Balázs Úr translated to Hungarian, Copyright (C) 2014.

Sebastian Rasmussen translated to Swedish, Copyright (C) 2015.

Rafael Fontenelle contributed to the Brazilian Portuguese translation,
Copyright (C) 2017.

Francisco Javier Serrador contributed to the Spanish translation,
Copyright (C) 2018.

Fabio Tomat translated to Friulian, Copyright (C) 2018.

---
Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.
